How long do you think it would take for
someone newer to web development to learn
enough to meaningfully hit
every check box on this list?
>> If you've already been coding,
it should take you about 30 to 45 days.
If you've been coding for
six to nine months already,
which is what I recommended for
people to have this course,
it'd take you 45 days to get your
portfolio up to code on this.
If you're brand new, like three months,
I think it'll take you another
three to six months before you
understand some of these things.
Because there are some things on
here that until you push code live,
you're not going to really understand,
right?
Web performance, or unit testing,
best design practices,
security best practices, right?
You're only gonna understand about
best security stuff when you a,
add a form, so you have to think
about the security of the form, and
when you're pushing it live, right?
That's when you're starting to
think about, is my site secure?
Is someone gonna be able to hack my
website or just cross site hosting or
cross site injections and
stuff like that, right?
And you're thinking about the XML and
things of that nature.
So that's how I think about it,
or how long I think it'll be,
six to nine months,
this should take 30 to 45 days.
If not, this should take you
about three to six months,
especially if you go even further,
you don't have to add everything on here,
but if you do,
it will highly grow your chances.
MySQL, adding a database to this,
that is something you may, or
may not want to do,
compared if you're using AWS Amplify, or
using Next as a format of holding data,
things of that nature.
So that's something that I want you to
think about when you're building this.
But when you're doing databases,
you're gonna have to think about
security in databases as well, right?
Cuz how many people's databases get broken
into cuz they haven't changed [LAUGH]
the database from what it was when they
first made it, when it was local for prod?
So that's my thought process on it,
or that's my opinion on it.
>> How important do you think Lighthouse
scores are with this kind of stuff?
>> If you're gonna be front end,
very important, because I check Lighthouse
scores on everybody's, that's the first
thing I check is your Lighthouse.
I wanna see what Lighthouse says,
I'm checking for accessibility especially.
I feel like we're going towards
this that if the component or
the website isn't accessible, the website
is not done mentality on the front end,
which is about time we're starting to
think about accessibility like that.
So for me, it's very important,
I wanna know the web performance,
I wanna know first paint,
if it's sub three seconds or not.
I wanna know how much bloated JavaScript
are or if your images are too big,
I wanna know all that stuff
because of it helps other areas.
>> Would that be something you'd document
somewhere or just kind of just for
you to know that it's-
>> You don't have to document it because
everybody has access to it,
they have Chrome.
What I would recommend is you
to use that as a part of your
process of building things out.
Because you don't want to be the last
person to find out that your
website is troublesome to say the least,
right?
Yes, sir.
>> So what's your opinion on the sort
of complexity of portfolio projects,
like time versus what
you're gonna build meaning?
>> That's a very complex question for me.
I tell people I personally
feel like the portfolio
should be the project you
spend the most time on.
And you should try to figure out
projects that flow well with
your portfolio that also flow
well with your personality,
when it comes to building out your
supplementary projects, right?
After that, when it comes to the projects,
every other project should be small,
it should be small enough
to learn one thing, right?
>> Every other project?
>> All right, so, there's trolley
projects, is what I call them,
trolley projects are small projects.
Those are the projects that
are designed for me to learn one thing.
JavaScript calculator,
that's a trolley project, right?
That's a project that's only designed for
me to learn something about JavaScript,
let me do this.
If I did a project is just
focused on React hook forms,
that's a trolley project, right?
I just wanna learn React hook forms, and
the focus of this for me to learn that so
I can implement it somewhere
larger down the line, but not for
me to try to use as a portfolio, right?
Now, I have Bravo projects, my Bravo
projects are something that are meatier,
more fleshed out, I can use it,
have it pinned on my repositories.
I can push it live,
I can have it as a part of a project
that I am showcasing on my portfolio.
Then I have Alpha project,
I view my portfolio is an Alpha project.
This is a project that is
going to be holding or
hosting or
leveraging other projects, right?
This is the big link,
this is the whale, right?
I want everybody to come here and then
they see all the other things that I've
done while here, like,
this is super cool, right?
It's like, hey,
if I had a really cool landing page, and
I have a blog that's attached to my
website, that's a alpha project.
And I can even write about how
I built the blog on the blog,
and probably have that as
part of the use case study.
And then from there, let's say I want
a chat bot as well, so I can communicate
with people like I did with mine,
I can have that as a alpha project.
Because that goes directly into the blog,
and I mean,
directly into my portfolio as well, and
I can communicate with that, right?
Now, if I have an extension or something,
that's a Bravo project, right?
It's a project that's standalone, but it
also helps people, that people can use it,
they can go find it, but I can write
about it and I can share that story.
Now, I can have a Charlie Project as well,
and Charlie projects no one sees them.
They're not designed to be seen,
they're designed to make me better, but
that's it, right?
If I wanted to learn a little, and
I wanted to make the Facebook emoji,
if I press this and five things pop
up with the like, and the heart, and
the angry face and stuff like that,
I want to learn how to make that in React.
That's not something that I'm gonna do and
put on my portfolio,
that's something I'm learning to figure
out how to do that, props up data down
type behavior, and then move on with
my life, and use that somewhere else.
>> Do you have any examples like that
middle tier project where it's worth
showing but it's not necessarily-
>> [COUGH] The VS code extension,
that's a middle tier project, right?
It's small enough to where I can
talk about it and people use it,
I can discuss it,
I can write a blog post about it, but
I can't make an entire
portfolio off of it.
It's just a project that's
a piece of a portfolio, but
it's substantial enough that
I had to push it to prod and
people got the opportunity to use and
leverage this tool, right?
So that is a Bravo style project, or
let's say you had an NPM
package of your resume, right?
That would be a Bravo style project,
like, hey,
you should go and NPM install my resume,
you can pull it from there.
>> MDM?
>> NPM, I keep forgetting your Java,
not JavaScript,
so NPM is a package handler that
we use to do all the things
in JavaScript, TypeScript,
React, Node world.
Yes, sir.
>> With the portfolio project, should we
be building that with the technologies
that we're advertising we're good at,
or it's just HTML, CSS?
>> You can do either,
only I am now at a stage in my career
where I only wanna add when it hurts, but
if I'm going to say Python,
I wanna get a Python expertise on it.
I want to put something with Python,
I'm leveraging Python,
even if I'm telling the story
of something of data.
I wanna create an ETL pipeline and
then use that ETL pipeline to
showcase me moving data around and
then doing some data engineering stuff,
that's what I am going to do, and yes.
>> Well, I guess to go back to my
previous question cuz other people
have been chaining on it.
The reason I asked about sort of
the time versus complexity is cuz some
of my projects take three or
four months sometimes.
They're extremely complex and that's,
I don't know, I just really like to make
things that are impressive over-
>> Yeah.
>> A lot of things,
I like to make one big thing.
So do you think that's too
long to be spending on things?
>> I think if you had the time and
bandwidth for it, why not?
I don't see a problem with that.
I don't think any employer
would see a problem with that.
But they would be like, now what I would
like to see is your planning of it.
And I think that might be something that
might be cool to see if you approached it
from a planning first process of
planning it out, making the tickets, and
then building the thing.
Would that change your speed from it?
Cuz all right,
you have a complex project, but
could you do a complex project
if I gave you a deadline, right?
That's a question that you
haven't asked yourself.
You haven't put that constraint on
yourself either yet, all right?
So, all right, I got 30 days,
I gotta make these tickets,
and then I have to knock this
out in a format to where,
hey, this MVP has to be done within 30,
right?
That's a new challenge, so
that's something that you should
definitely think about consider for
yourself.